[SOUND]
There are many applications for
HTML character entity references, however
in this lecture, I will concentrate only
on a particular problem that
the entity references can solve for us.
Since HTML uses certain characters for
its syntax, we need a way to differentiate
between those characters as HTML and
those same characters as content.
If we want the browser to
interpret special HTML
characters as regular content,
we need a way to escape them.
In other words, we need a way to tell
the browser not to interpret them as HTML.
Specifically, there are three characters
that should always be escaped to make
sure they don't cause rendering issues,
either right away or down the line.
And these characters are the following.
The < character,
the > character and the &.
Instead of using the < character,
you should use the HTML entity
which starts with & and
then followed by lt;.
So if you put in your HTML, <,
what the browser will interpret
this as a < character.
And similarly, for
the > character, it's >.
And for the & it is &.
So let's take a look at some HTML
to see this concept in action.
Okay, so we're looking at the document
called html-entities-before.html
which is located in
the examples Lectures08 folder.
And this document contains a quote
from one of the US presidents,
Theodore Roosevelt, which happens to
be one of my favorite quotes of his and
a very weird looking h1 content.
So we can take a look at it,
it says don't be afraid
to be more;.
So let's take a look at what
this looks like in the browser.
As you can see,
our heading didn't really do so well.
It says, Don't be afraid to be more and
there's a whole bunch
of words missing here.
Well the reason this is going on is
because the browser is interpreting this
left angle bracket as
a beginning of a tag.
And then it looks at the word then.
It doesn't quite understand
what kind of a tag that is and
basically skips just about everything
between the left angle bracket and
the right angle bracket and
just says the word more.
So we could fix that very
easily with substituting
the < angle bracket with
the HTML entity reference.
And once we're at it, we might as well
substitute the other two characters,
the & and the >.
We'll save the document,
go reload our webpage, and as you can see,
the entire h1 tag content
is displayed on the screen.
In reality, HTML contains a whole ton
of different HTML entity references.
And obviously we're not going to be
able to go through most of them.
However, one particularly common
one is the copyright symbol.
And the main reason why we use
an HTML entity reference for
it is because it's not really very
readily found on any keyboards out there.
However, we could very easily put that in.
So let's go ahead and
put it right here after the year.
And the copyright entity
reference is just ©.
So let's save it and
reload it in our browser.
And here's the copyright symbol that's
appearing right after the year and
before the word copyright.
There's another HTML entity reference
that is very commonly used and
unfortunately, a lot of
time misused as well.
Let's say for
example that in the last sentence here
that ends timid souls who
neither know victory nor defeat.
Let's say we wanted the words victory nor
defeat never to wrap, but
always stay the same.
So, what do I mean by that?
Let me pull the browser and
make it a little bit less wide.
And as you can see, the word victory nor
defeat is split up into different lines.
Let's say I didn't want that.
For whatever visual reason I
wanted the words victory nor
defeat to always stay the same.
So if it is going to wrap,
it should either not wrap at all or
wrap all together.
Well, the way you do that is
with a non-breaking space.
And the way you use it is nbsp;.
Not breaking space, or
removing all spaces between the words.
So now let's take a look what
it looks like in the browser.
We'll go ahead and refresh it.
And now you'll see that the words victory
nor defeat as we squeeze the browser and
make it a little bit less wide, they will
either both drop to the next line or
they will stay in the same line, but
they will not be separated anymore.
But let me caution about misuse
of this entity reference.
A lot of people use this entity reference
if they want to make a space between,
let's say the word critic and the word
who, and they will put a few spaces.
Let's say they need a few spaces in it.
And if I now refresh the browser,
I see now got a few spaces between
the word critic and the word who.
And that's a total misuse
of this entity reference.
If you ever wanted to have spaces,
or extra spaces, between some words
in the text, what you would do is you
would probably wrap around some text
in a span tag and then apply some margin,
in this case left margin,
to the span tag to remove it
the further from the word critic.
But you should never use
the non-breaking space HTML and
the reference For that purpose.
Let me show you another HTML entity
reference that is very commonly used.
And it's especially useful when somebody's
trying to write an HTML based email.
Since the email clients are notorious for
using a much more limited character set
than UTF-8, some of the characters
sometimes get messed up.
So let me show you what I mean.
Let's go to the web page and
instead of viewing this web page in UTF-8,
we'll change the encoding to something
more limited like Windows-1252.
And if you notice, some of the quotes
became these very weird characters.
So how do we solve that?
Well, the way we could solve it is by
using an HTML entity references of quote.
And if we preview this in a browser again,
and let's refresh the browser.
And now there are quotes.
Maybe they are not the same type
of curly quotes as before, but
they're quotes nevertheless.
So in summary,
we looked at HTML entities, and
they help avoid rendering issues, and
especially with those three characters
that HTML can try to render instead
of thinking of it as content.
We also saw that sometimes
you can safeguard with these
HTML HTML entities safe guard against
more limited character set encodings.
And you could provide characters
not available in the keyboard.
For example, like we provided
the character of copyright
that was at the end of the document.
That certainly is not on any of
the keyboard that I've seen, but
you could still display that
character using the HTML entity.
Next we're going to talk about
making text hyper with linking.